---
layout: post
title: Puzzles
---

The post collects some interesting puzzles from my interviews, math forums,
stackoverflow, etc.


## Programming

### Design a Function f(f(n)) = -n
>Design a function $$f$$, such that
>$$f(f(n)) = -n$$
>where $$n$$ is a 32 bit signed integer.

**Solution**:

$$f(n) = \mathrm{sign}(n) - (-1)^n\times n$$.


## Mathematics

### Earth Traveler's Puzzle
>Start from a place on earth surface, you travel south for 100 miles, east
>for 100 miles, and finally north for 100 miles and you get back to your
>starting point. Where did you start?

**Solution**:

* At the north pole.

* Or, 100 miles north of any point on the circle around the south pole that is 100 miles in circumference.

* Or, 100 miles nouth of any such circle whose circumference is an integral fraction of 100 miles.


### Secretary Problem
>Imagine an administrator willing to hire the best secretary out of n rankable
>applicants for a position. The applicants are interviewed one by one in random
>order. A decision about each particular applicant is to be made immediately
>after the interview. Once rejected, an applicant cannot be recalled. During
>the interview, the administrator can rank the applicant among all applicants
>interviewed so far, but is unaware of the quality of yet unseen applicants.

**Solution**:

This problem is a famous example of
[optimal stopping theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optimal_stopping).
The solution come from
[the wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secretary_problem).


### Hat Puzzles

#### Hat 1
>Each of them is put on a hat of either red or blue with i.i.d probability of
>0.5. (i.e. equal chance of being red and blue, and what's put on one person
>doesn't affect what are on the other people.) Each one can only see the other
>people's hats, but not his own. He has to guess the color of his own hat by
>writing down either "Red", "Blue", or "Don't know". After all three people
>write down their guesses, they would win if:
>
>1. At least one of them guessed right, and
>
>2. None of them guessed wrong.
>
>Those three people can discuss a strategy before the hats are put on their
>heads. After the hats are on, they can't communicate to each other including
>seeing other's guess. What strategy would give them the best chance of winning
>and what's the probability of winning under that strategy?

**Solution**
